---
layout: post
date: 2022-09-15 3:00
title:  "Why I blog"
mood: happy
category:
- reflections
---
Put aside money for a moment. And ask yourself what you want to do.
I like finding out things. Discovering them for the first time and understanding.
I like the idea that I can do it easy while others cannot.
I like explaining it to them because I get to understand it better.
I like explaining things simply. Down to its core, to its root cause, fundamentals.

<!--more-->

When I code in SQL or Python, I see the page in front of me and I am focused on the line of code. I keep writing one line of code after the other until I complete my task. For a moment, my world is centered on each line of code I write. This is where I find peace.

When someone asked me to figure out a formula, I used a pen a paper to solve it using Algebra, I liked that too. I remember answering my homework in physics back in school. I like that as well.

Every time I solve a problem, whether it is on paper or in code, I create a world for myself where I am alone and where my purpose is clear. I am like a dog when someone throws a stick. I fetch it and my only job is to fetch that stick. No one explains it to me. No one tells me. I instinctively just do it.

This is why I like working at 3am. Why I have a clean inbox or a clean desktop. I like focusing on only 1 thing and give it my all.

I like creating systems in code. When I need to run the same analysis, instead of doing all the steps again, I run my code and it will spit out the answer. I like creating rules or taking notes of them so that my life would be easier. It makes decisions easier. This is how dollar-cost averaging is so easy now for me.

When i created that graph for NYT, and I was focused on copying the visualization, I love breaking it apart and learning how things work so that I can create my own version. Learning is part of the process but what drives me is to actually building something. I enjoy learning because it allows me to solve a problem and creating systems around it. Slowly building my set of rules/systems. Crafting something as my work. If it was a chair, I would have built a whole room of chairs. Each one better than the previous.

I need to focus on that. Focusing on one thing makes me happy and documenting the skills and seeing all the things I have built is fulfilling. Being focused at something alleviates by anxieties. Having a purpose and knowing where I am going removes my sense of being lost.

This is what Datstoic.com is about. It is a room full of chairs that I have built.
